Okay, so welcome back and this series of videos,
what we're gonna look at is some of the kind of
more fundamental programmes inside of the command line.
So, the very first thing we're gonna look at,
is one of the kinda building blocks
of the UNIX command line
and when I say UNIX command line,
the UNIX command line is the same as a Mac command line
and Linux and so on.
We're gonna be looking at pipes.
Now, what pipes do are to connect two programmes together.
So, it takes the output of one programme
and feeds it as the input to the second programme
and you can keep kinda joining up multiple programmes
to manipulate the output until you get what you want.
A few really simple examples of this would be
you could be watching a log file,
so you could just look at all the log file
and print out to the screen every time a new line
is inserted in the log.
But instead of printing everything to the screen,
you could pipe that output into another programme
that just limits it down to
certain key phrase that you're looking for.
So, maybe you're looking for an IP address in the log,
you would tail the log,
which is the effect of watching the log
and printing new lines to the screen
as they're inserted to the log.
You would pipe that to a programme called grep,
which is the command we'll use and see later on
for searching and that would
basically philtre the output
just to show you what you wanted really.
So, this next series of videos,
we're gonna start by looking at pipe
to connect programmes together.
We're also going to look at string manipulation,
since all the programmes on the command line
actually print strings, they print just text.
We're gonna look at manipulating that text,
so we can do things like, like I said, grep,
which is a way of searching.
We can do more complicated greps using regular expressions,
if you're at all familiar with that.
We can sort lines, we can count lines,
we can look for unique lines,
and a lot of useful kind of string manipulation tools.
So, let's jump straight in
and let's have a look at the pipes.
So, you don't have to worry too much about the commands
I'm gonna be using here,
but what I want to show you is
the effect of each one individually.
So, I want to find, in my blog that I released earlier,
I'm in my blog directory
and I want to find all the markdown files I've written
and I want to see how much content I've written over time.
Now, to start of with, I need to find all the files
or some way of finding all the markdown files
and find is a command to do that.
So type find, dot, and press enter,
you'll now see every single file in this directory,
including hidden files, stuff I don't want,
server.js directories, a load of files
I don't particularly want,
but also you can see there are some markdown files here.
So you can see talks.md, Twitter.md,
if I scroll up even further,
hopefully somewhere up here,
you'll start seeing some more markdown
and those are the actual blog posts.
So, I could copy all of that
and then open something like sublime
and then just start kinda of weeding through
to find all the markdown files.
What I can do next,
is I can take the output from find
and pipe it using the pipe command to grep
and grep will search for terms.
So, I'm gonna search for the term .md,
because the file names that came out,
they end with .md.
I can do pipe grep .md
and now, instead of printing everything in the screen,
it only prints the lines that have the string .md.
Now, there is a case that could be a problem here.
There could me .md in a middle of a sentence,
but for the time being,
I'm just gonna keep it simple and just look for .md.
So now, I have all the markdown files, which is good
and I can count those,
so let's pipe that to wc.
Wc is the word count programme
and if a run that, I can see that there are,
this is 141 words, this lines, this is characters.
Sorry, lines, words, characters.
I'm gonna do lines, words, characters.
I'm more interested in words,
but I haven't written 441 words,
it's actually the output from this, is being counted,
so it counts that there are actually,
this is a word here.
So, what I need to do is
like take all of these files
and individually get the contents,
so the programme, cat, can take
the contents and file name
and print it to screen.
But I need to find a way of getting all of those files
to be echoed out.
So, I should be able to do,
well if I try and pipe it to cat,
doesn't quite work because it's just piping
the input which will need another programme,
not gonna explain how it works right at this second,
but just really kind of look at
piping programmes to mark together.
So, I'm gonna used xargs
and that will count out every single file
and from there, I can do wc,
and it'll give me the total count.
So, words I've written, something like almost
a quarter of a million words,
and I can use xargs on the wc as well
and it will give me a count
of individual files that I can see.
I've got a draught here that has 1100 words,
total number of words down here.
But really, again, what I'm showing you is
grepping, sorry not grepping,
piping commands together
and any programme that has output,
you can pipe it into other programmes.
Nearly every single programme will accept
input via this pipe
and the names for these things
is so when I run a command,
everything that's printed on screen
is being printed in instead of out
and when I'm reading it from a pipe,
I'm reading from standard in.
So, useful to remember these terms when
you're kind of having a Google
and seeing if a command can accept a standard in.
But certainly all of the common commands in
the command line, find, grep, ls, cat, echo,
all of the kind of basic commands,
things you didn't instal in the first place,
will accept standard in.
So, basically allow programmes to connect up using pipes.
So, just to show you one other use of pipe,
there's a programme called less,
which allows me to page through content.
So, instead of printing everything to screen,
I can pipe to less
and it'll give me one page at a time.
So, you can see there's a cursor down in this corner,
if I press space, it'll go down through
an entire page of content.
I can use a cursor key to go up and down
and inside of less, I can search for things as well.
So, I can do a search for .md,
and it will show me markdown files that I'm looking for.
So, being able to pipe commands together
to make more use of them is really powerful and very useful.
So, once we've looked at pipes,
you'll start seeing them at
or more, you possibly have already used them.
It's likely you've copied and pasted
something with a pipe already
and next we're gonna look at string manipulation commands.
So, there's gonna be a whole slew of them
and that'll be in the next video.